Well, he wouldn't talk to us, but you saw it.
Don't. Don't let him surrender. Shoot him!
If he doesn't lower his gun I'll fucking kill her.
I can't believe this guy got off. Unbelievable.
I don't want to drag you down with me.
They've got her testimony on videotape. And even if they do take her to court immediately after she'll be extradited. The Czechs want her back. She shot a cop! I mean, Christ, man, what if Emil Slovak and Oleg Razgul fled to the Czech Republic? How would you feel if the Czechs wouldn't give them back to us?!
Look, what don't you understand? We've got a good relationship with the Czech's and the State Department doesn't want to cause an incident.
How are you going to fight this? Maybe if Oleg hadn't gotten away and you'd been on the front page, as a hero, this thing would be easier to fight. You'd have the good to weight against the bad! It's unfortunate that I have to make decisions based upon your press coverage but there's nothing I can do! Gimme your shield.
The public doesn't have any idea what we do and now you're going to define our image! This is going to be our Rodney King!
I don't think it's abuse, I think it's torture.
I'm abused. Don't you think?
Thirty-percent. No more. Or I call another lawyer. This is the biggest case of your life. Don't try to negotiate. Thirty percent. Say yes or no.
Look, I haven't really focused on that kind of thing.
Don't worry about him. Think about yourself.
Well, you didn't appreciate the severity of it until recently. No question about that.
In fact, Cutler claimed Mr. Slovak was not the alleged mastermind behind the murders. According to Cutler, Mr. Slovak was being directed by his partner, who threatened to kill him if he didn't follow Mr. Razgul's orders. Cutler told reporters today that Mr. Razgul did in fact stab his client.
Don't move!
Look at that. See that shot! Seamless. No cuts.  And look. Look at that transition. That's filmmaking!! Isn't it great?!
Keep your mouth shut. Don't mess this up.
Gimme your gun, Jordy. We all want him dead but you can't do it this way.
C'mon. Pull the trigger. Do it. Oh, look, you're sweating. You don't have the balls.
You can't kill me. You're not a cop. Just fireman with a gun. I bet you never shot anybody in your life.
Look, you can't shoot him in cold blood.
Don't stoop to his level!
Don't you get it? He knew he was gonna get caught! That's why he videotaped Eddie's murder - he thinks he's gonna get off.
Jordy...??? Listen to me. You can't do this. This isn't the way to do things.
Where are you goin'?? This ain't the way to the station!
Don't get into it on TV.
Don't give me that fucking shit.
If I didn't put it on somebody else would! I was his friend!
Don't you put your hands on me, Detective.
Don't say a word. Don't respond to his taunting!  He's represented by counsel. You want to speak to someone - you speak to me!
We're takin' him. Don't argue!
Don't say anything.
Don't move! Don't move! Get your hands up! Drop it!
No, I don't get that!
Yes. But there's only one problem - you want credit but the problem is - I don't share credit.
Aren't you just the cameraman?
Because I am the director. Don't you realize, if it wasn't for my film, for my talent, my idea to do this - no way would we be sitting here right now.
Good evening. Welcome to "Top Story". Tonight, I present to you material of a graphic and violent nature never before seen on television. And I do so with a heavy heart. You will be first-hand witness to the slaying of celebrated New York City Homicide Detective, Eddie Flemming. It would be only normal to ask, why? Why are we showing something so journalist, I must show it. A democracy survives through the freedom of its media, and if we cannot see what is happening then we don't deserve our democracy, or our freedom. Eddie Flemming was my friend. I cried when I watched this footage and vowed to fight this violence with every molecule of my being from this day onward. Hopefully, this will have a similar effect on you. One final word, this material is absolutely not appropriate for children. The restaurant BUZZES. Emil checks his watch.
Oleg, don't be paranoid. You got a hundred-fifty thousand dollars, didn't you? I gave you half of what they gave me. Look - here we are!
America! Who says you can't be success in America? I arrived with nothing, knowing nobody - now look - I am a success story!
Isn't she a beauty? She's my fire, look at that loom-up on her!
Don't! It'll suck the flames toward us!
If you were my boyfriend, I'd suggest you find another girlfriend that isn't going to jail ten-thousand miles away.
I still can't believe Eddie's gone.
If you don't want my film - I'll call another show. And they will show it.
What? It doesn't work that way.
Come to 45 Broadway. Don't bring the Police. Come alone or you'll be in my next film.
I can't talk to anybody right now, can't you see I'm busy! I can't talk business. Hang up. Have a drink.  Get her a whiskey.
I'd never had a great relationship before. I'd never made great choices with men. And he wasn't easy to get to know. He was older, my parents told me I was nuts to get involved with him. But he was so great to me. Always encouraging, telling me I could do anything...  He was the one. You know, I'd give up everything - everything - for just a little more time. I would've spent fifteen minutes with him if that's all I knew I had. She's lost it. Hawkins consoles her. Nicolette shrugs him off - turns back to her drink. Downs the rest of it. A
No. We are insane. Who else but crazy men would film their murders?  So we kill someone famous and if we are caught, we are sent to mental hospital. But what good is money there? Because once in hospital I say I not crazy. Just pretended to be acquitted. We see psychiatrists. They must certify we are sane and because of your - what is law called?  Oh - I got it. Because of your Double Jeopardy law, we can't be tried for same crime twice. We come out free, rich and famous!
So tabloids don't have to do re enactments. They going to have real movie this time.
You know, I don't know. I like you. You remind me of a puppy I used to have. He pissed on the rug all the time, but I still kept him.
How you go out on a limb for somebody is by giving her a number of an Immigration lawyer. Here, here's a number of an Immigration lawyer. That's how you help her. But you can't get involved in her like that. You're gonna jeopardize your career, your life and you're gonna jeopardize my case. And lemme give you another piece of advice. Maybe you don't watch TV but I'll let you in on a little secret - the whole fuckin' world watches television. And when you get out there, they know your face. And the little fame, the little fuckin' itty bitty fame that I get in this city makes it a lot easier for my job. And I get more done because of it. Jordy studies Eddie for a quiet beat.
But, I mean, didn't you ever go out on a limb for somebody? I mean, you shoulda heard her there. Tellin' her whole story...I believed her.
Well, it's not up to you to decide whether she's innocent or not. Don't you understand, that's why you're a professional.
No, I don't think you were a fool, I just think you were stupid about it. I mean, to say the least, you outta know better. You don't know her well enough. She's got the potential to fucking hang you even if she suggests that you made a pass at her, it's fuckin' over. You can deny it all you want, but it will not make one fucking bit of difference. You're dead.
Well, you shoulda because nobody's gonna believe you didn't...including me.
Look, Eddie, I'm tellin' you - I didn't touch her.
There was too much press hangin' around there. I didn't want her face on the news. So I told him to take her to a quiet area until things settled down.
I came to see how the investigation was going.  I called and you're not here. I wait up at the station and you don't even show up!!! I beep you - you don't return my call. Where the hell have you been?!
Why won't you be angry at me for keeping my movie?
And the whore's murder? You didn't erase that either, did you? Don't lie, I won't be angry.
I'm sorry. I didn't mean to...I'm glad. Actually I'm glad it's over. All this time. Hiding. Never being able to look anyone in the eyes. Always afraid that someone would find out who I was. Never trusting anyone... He covers her with the towel, pulling her up.
You don't know. I'm sorry. I was desperate. That's not me. I shot a cop. Can you imagine what they'll do to me when I got to prison?
I came here. I had no money. I knew no one. I couldn't get a job because you have to have a green card to get work. They approached me - I could've made a lot of money. I considered it, but... it's not who I am. They pay me below the table at Ludwig's.
Don't be late.
Okay. That is great. But I can't go now, we're in the middle of something here.
Katie. We don't know where she is. We can't find her. You gotta anchor the 5:00. This is your shot. Come now.
Don't worry about the damn phone. I won't answer it.
You know, Nicky, I've been married twice before. My first wife was a professional woman, didn't have time for children. My second wife...I never wanted to go home to her.
You were merciless. You didn't give a shit if you got me or not.
Yes you are. I'm not just some reporter. I don't just stick a microphone in your face. You could give me something.
Alright, alright, Eddie. Don't patronize me.
You didn't have to embarrass me in front of my colleagues. You could give me something.
I can't...I can't answer you just because you want me to answer you!
I want to live the rest of my life with you...I don't know you've been married before and I've never been married, but I do love you, and...
I can't take you to my place.
They won't until this is over.
I will if they don't send me back.
Don't want to film this?
Okay, tell you what, I'll give you a head start. You take her to the station house. Don't let her out of your sight. She's the only warm body we got left.
I don't have a girlfriend.
No, no, don't talk to Immigration!
Are you here illegally? Don't worry about that. We'll talk to Immigration. They won't deport you.
I told your partner, I can't help. I didn't see anything.
I really can't give out any information right now at this point.
I can't talk right now. We have some things to take care of.
I know. Relax. Take it easy. Don't worry, we'll get those fuckers.
The other side of the street. The guy with the videocamera.  Don't look - put her in the car.  Stay this side.
You don't have to be afraid. We're here to protect you. Come with me. We want to talk to you. You speak English alright?
I don't want to kill you. But if you talk, I will.  I thought you'd want these.
When I lose it, I lose control. I didn't intend to kill Milos but he stole from me. Cheated me! When I went to prison, they beat me. I still didn't tell he was my partner. I loved Milos like a brother... The tone in Emil's voice - there's an uncharacteristic
Why are you messing with your hair color again? You're going to kill your hair. You won't look good with black hair.
Then I guess we're doin' this the right way, aren't we? If we pull up to a burning building I'll gladly let you go first. Jordy looks at Eddie - can't deny he's right.
Tall, short-haired, scary eyes. Second guy with him was...shorter, with a wrestler's build. And he wouldn't turn his videocamera off me.
Yeah. He wanted a girl from Czechoslovakia, but I sent him Honey 'cause once they get there, you know, it doesn't really matter - Honey was killed...? Poor girl...
We don't have her I.D. yet, but one of your girls was killed last night at the King Edward Hotel.
Just a minute. Shit. And I don't have a camera. Hold on a second.
Tell you what - I'll flip you a coin. If you win you can come with me. If you don't win, you don't come.
If you look here where he missed and hit the wall you see that the marks aren't deep but they're kinda wide... not your everyday kitchen or pocket knife.
Our killer...our killer's standing here slashing at her. She's fightin' him. The blood is splattering this way. It's on this wall...  And there's some specks over here.  There's nothing here because someone was standing right here. Someone big. And he's got blood on him. Lots of blood. He wouldn't walk out of here like that.  Murphy, what kind of knife you think we're talking about here?
This isn't homicide school.
There wasn't a fire. There'll be nothing for you to do.
Obviously they weren't having sex. As you pointed out. So why go through all the trouble of putting 'em like that?
Maybe you don't care about that either.  Prettiest suspect I've had in awhile.
The Super said he'd seen her before but she didn't live here.
I don't even watch TV.
Well, just so you know, I don't care about that stuff.
If I go home I won't be able to fall asleep anyway.
Aren't you tired?
Why don't we get some sleep and we'll go see him in the morning.
-- From Czechoslovakia? And how long have they been livin' in your building?  Alright, I'll be in touch when we know somethin'.  Milos and Tamina Karlova. They were quiet and kept to themselves. Landlord don't know who your girl is.
Alright, alright - don't hurt me!
Listen to me. I don't want sex. Just give me the address and then you go.
Look. Do we have a problem here? There's no reason to have a problem. I'm gonna make you feel real good. You wanna Czech girl? After I'm done with you, you won't miss her. Now why don't you pay me?
It's an outcall service run out of an apartment. I don't meet the other girls. Aren't you gonna get undressed?
That doesn't apply to me because I'm not a criminal. I'm not a criminal! I wasn't convicted. Emil leans forward - listening. Fascinated.
But doesn't the Son of Sam Law prevent criminals from profiting from their crimes?
And isn't there a movie in the works about you?
Permanently disrupted? Aren't you selling paintings now for quite a lot of money? Hasn't this 'incident' as you call it, jump started your career as an artist?
Yes. My psychiatrist didn't insist that I stay on my medication.
This had nothing to do with shoes that didn't fit or my relationship with my father who, as you know, made a fortune selling penny loafers in the fifties. These people died because of the criminal actions of my doctor.
Don't you guys understand? It's all about image. The better we look the more money I get to pay you guys overtime.
Then why didn't you talk to the reporter?
Stupid, Milos. I didn't want to kill him.  What's this?
I'll do it. Don't hurt my camera!
I'm not filming. I'm watching Milos die. It's just like a move but realer. Emil grabs the videocamera.  Don't break it! Don't break it!
We don't know. When I have more I'll let you know.
You know you can't do that. C'mon.
We don't know that yet. It's much too early. There's a lot to be done.
They have not soot in their mouths, which means they weren't breathin' before the fire and that usually means they were deceased - and this piece of cloth that my partner found means they were wrapped up in something, probably doused with a flammable liquid and positioned like this on the bed. To the untrained eye, it looks like an accident.
Why don't you explain it, Bobby.  Hey Camello! You mind punching a hole in the floor?
Don't blow your nose!
No, we don't mind. You mind Leon?
Hey, that's great you guys got it all wrapped up, but you don't mind if we go through the routine? It gives us somethin' to do.
I don't know. We got the experts here. Show them what you found - I hope you don't mind, we came over to see if we could help.
I don't know, you think Eddie will give me his autograph?
Homicide? Who let them up? I didn't make it a crime scene yet.
Yeah, I radioed you guys right away 'cause you got two roasts on the top floor but you don't hafta investigate cause homicide is up there.
Hey. C'mon, you can't leave me like this. Some freak'll come by and stab me!
You couldn't listen to me, could you?
Fire Department? Firemen don't carry guns.
Look, I don't have time for you, get out of my way!!
Take your eyes off her, Oleg!  Look. It wasn't my fault you two were caught.  It's his fault. Trying to get the bank clerk's phone number?! I wasn't going to wait!!!
Your sister said she didn't know where you were so you shouldn't write to her with return address if you're hiding.
Again? I didn't wanna do it the first time.
It's not my house, man. I don't live here.
I don't know. You always come outta your house that way?
I hope this prick doesn't run. My knees are killing me. Stay behind me.
Don't speak Russian!
My kids don't talk to me anymore but they were great when they were young.
Absomotherfuckin'lutely. You can have all three of my ex-wives. But somebody so much as looks sideways at my four girls -- I'd kill 'em.  You haven't seen my youngest have you?
My kids? Let's see...Susan's 15. Aundrea's 9. Don't tell me you're thinking about having a kid! How old are you? Never mind. Let me just tell you this: Every stupid cliche you hear about kids - they change your life, they make you a better person, they make you whole...  It's all true! Before I had kids when friends talked about their kids, I wanted to vomit. Now -- I get it. Am I right, Leon?
Isn't he a little moody?
What's the kid gonna say - sorry? Meanwhile I'm not here anymore. Like last week - we were at the morgue and this guy was all chopped up - spleen here - liver there - his heart in a pan. Six hours ago this guy was walkin' his dog or buyin' a quart of milk. Who knows? But some kid's robbed him for $3 or some shit and shot him and now you can't tell if he's a piece of beef or a human being and I'm thinkin' that's me. Sooner or later. That's me.
So we're waitin' to hit this warrant - we got Emergency Service with the heavy weapons standin' by - ready to go. I say, lemme get a cigar outta the car. I go to get the cigar and BOOM! All the sudden I turn around and a kid with a shotgun let one go. Right where I was standin'. That coulda been it. I coulda had my head blown off and for what? Some stupid kid got panicky, takes the safety off and it's over. If I hadn't gone back for that cigar - for a bad habit - I would've had my head blown off.
Well, they've got valid visas, but they don't have much money. Uh... and I'm not...uh, I think there's a possibility they may be coming to live and reside.
He doesn't speak English.
Don't fool around.
Just do what I do. Say the same thing I say. Don't open your mouth.
Really?  God... I wouldn't know where to start... and yet...
I am not listening, Father. But I can't help hearing. FERNANDO opens a letter and reads it quickly.
I can't keep my eyes off you. I would like to catch up with all the moments I didn't spend with you.
Can't you stay with us a little?
I don't know... I have the impression that I didn't change that much. I still can't accept the world as it is!
Yes. I forgave you a long time ago. You see, I was proud of you. You were like a willful child. You wouldn't accept what others told you. You had to find things out for yourself, hurting yourself -- and others -- in the process.
I don't understand.
We can't be.
But as least we haven't been bored, have we?
What you are, Colon, is a sailor, a discoverer, a man of imagination... not a politician. You weren't meant to govern -- You cannot be all things to all men.
Not everything... Do you think I care? I'm a free man again. Riches don't make a man rich, they only make him busier...
They tried... but I didn't let them.
God... you're so beautiful! I can't believe no other man has ever taken you away from me...
No matter how long you live, Sanchez, there's something that will never change between us. I did it! You didn't!
I can't go anyway.
Didn't you learn? The mainland was discovered. Weeks ago. By another Italian. I forgot his name.
Utapan, won't you speak to me? You used to know how to speak to me.
You know what they will say in Spain about my death -- don't you?
Moxica is right. Our ways don't work!
Don't Moxica! You can't...
We weren't expecting immediate profits, were we? We must have faith. We must give time for time.
I don't know. It seems almost as if we have exchanged diseases with the Indians. They die of our most common cold, and we of their plague.
Then let's hope not...  What will happen if we can't find enough gold?
Perhaps it doesn't exist anywhere but in my imagination.
My horse doesn't work.
We can't raise the wheel without it.
We don't need to know.
You don't usually ask.
Now -- you tell me. Who can I trust?  We're brothers! We must be a House. A bloodline! In this country one can't exist alone! I need you...! Both of you! He walks then to the balustrade. The cries from the courtyard down below subside... some of the applicants begin to look up, aware of his presence.
They don't see sin in their nakedness. They live according to nature, in a never ending summer. The islands are covered with trees, filled with blossoms and fruits.
And you say this is an Indian vice? By God! I don't see any kind of pleasure that would make this a sin.
It won't be easy to get rid of your prophet now, Don Sanchez.
Alonso! Jaime! Don't let this wind escape us.
God doesn't want us to cross the ocean...! This voyage is cursed!
You don't know anything! Listen Colon, these are my ships, right? So I'm telling you we're turning back!
You think I don't know that?
Captain, I don't understand.
Can't be that far, I say. Also, I don't like the smell of the sea around here. Smells like a cunt. Bad sign...
With a face like that?  I don't want you looking at me. You hear?
Don't move! A mistake of one degree and we'll be off 6,000 leagues!
I have to tell you Santangel. I don't know where on earth I am going! They both laugh. A FISHERMAN, standing in his shrimp-boat lets his hand slide gently along the gigantic hull. He stares up at the SAILORS leaning on the rail.
If I tell them, they won't follow me. You know that I am right, Father. You trust me...
There aren't any monsters, Fernando. The only monsters are in here...  Watch!
You can't go there!
That's something you can't decide.
I don't want you to wait for me.
Yes. It would be a pity, wouldn't it?  Call him back!
If you won't accept our proposal, we'll simply find someone who will.
I know what I see. I see someone who doesn't accept the world as it is. Who's not afraid. I see a women who thinks... "What if?"...
It couldn't be better. Victors can't say no.
I don't look like it, but I have friends at the Court. The Treasurer of Aragon, for example. He finances me. His name's Santangel. Ever heard of him?
You wonder why I believe in you? Hey, I am a seaman. And we don't like to be told where to go, and where not to go.
Sssshhhh...! One can't speak to a man doing penance.
Colon! Don't!
These don't mean anything! They're full of assumptions! Out of the heads of old men who've never been past the end of their gardens!
You mustn't give way to despair.
They didn't listen. They didn't want to listen!
Don't you realize your words could be considered heretical?
We wouldn't have to turn back! We would find land at this point!
Well... that's true. I have a child by a man who won't marry me! Who's always leaving...
I haven't given you much of a life.
Two minutes... and already you're a dead man. Don't let passion overwhelm you, Colon.
Just be careful you don't lose him.
Diego! Aren't you going to kiss your brother?
There was a time when the New World didn't exist...
It doesn't even have an odor.
Oh, God, we don't have time for this.
This part isn't about the virus, is it?
Coma on, Cole, don't be an asshole.  Look, I got orders, man! You know what I'm sposed to do if you don't go along? I'm sposed to shoot the lady! You got that? They said, "If Cole don't obey this time, Garcia, you gotta shoot his girlfriend!"
I'm staying here! You got that? You can't stop me!
Leave me alone! I made a report. I didn't have to do that. RASPY VOICE  Point of fact -- you don't belong here. It's not permitted to let you stay.
Don't see a lot of this... cash.
Listen, I don't know whether you're there or not. Maybe you just clean carpets. If you do, you're lucky -- you're gonna live a long, happy life. But if you other guys exist and you're picking this up -- forget about the Army of The Twelve Monkeys -- they didn't do it. It was a mistake' Someone else did it. The Army of The Twelve Monkeys are just dumb kids playing revolutionaries. It was someone else!
Twelve Monkeys, honey. Guess you folks didn't turn on your radio this morning.
I mean in my dream -- I didn't realize it was you. Then...I woke up and I...I thought you were gone.
You were in my dream just now. I didn't recognize you.
In a few weeks, it will have started or it won't. If there are still baseball games and traffic jams, armed robberies and boring TV shows -- we'll be so happy, we'll be glad to turn ourselves in to the police.
So we can stick our heads out the window and feel the wind and listen to the music. So we can appreciate what we have while we have it. Forgive me, psychiatrists don't cry.
If we can't change anything...because it's already happened, then we ought to at least smell the flowers.
I have seen it, but I don't remember this part. Funny, it's like what's happening to us, like the past. The movie never changes -- it can't change -- but everytime you see it, it seems to be different because you're different -- you notice different things.
Shh -- don't talk. Hold still.
Please tell me, Jeffrey, what exactly are you going to do? I don't have to tell you I'm afraid.
You "develop" viruses and you're calling me insane? Typical. What does this virus attack? Don't tell me, you sick fuck, it doesn't matter.  Have I ever "developed" a virus? Do I put helpless animals in cages and measure their reactions to electrical stimuli? Do I inject radioactive substances into living creatures and examine their bowel movements? Wow! And I'm crazy!
I didn't believe her -- it seemed too crazy even for you. But, just in case, I took steps to make sure you couldn't do it. I took myself out of the loop! I don't have the code any more. I don't have access to the virus. So, go ahead -- torture me, but you can't extract anything of use to yourself. The ACTIVISTS are all exchanging puzzled looks.
They got your message, Kathryn. They played it for me. It was a bad recording...distorted. I didn't recognize your voice.
You... you couldn't have heard me.
"The Army of the Twelve Monkeys -- they're the ones who are going to do it. I can't do anything more. The police are watching me."
Just...just in case. In case I'm not crazy...  That's how they find us. By our teeth.  I don't want them to find me. Ever. I don't want to go back.
You...heard...her. Don't do it, man.
Well, I can't. ... I mean...I'm trying to. I can't believe that everything we do or say has already happened, that we can't change what's going to happen, that I'm one of the three billion people who are going to die...soon.
It was? I didn't...know.
I don't know -- I don't remember.
I don't understand what we're doing.
You think I told her about the Army of the 12 Monkeys? Impossible! Know why, you pathetically ineffectual and pusillanimous "pretend-friend-to- animals"?! I'll tell you why: because when I had anything to do with her six years ago, there was no such thing -- I hadn't even thought of it yet!
Wow, a guy in a Chevy is chasing her and some other guy I can't see.
James! That's a policeman. Pretend you don't know me. If he sees you...
I can't see it.
No! Absolutely not. Don't tell me anything.
The police. I know. Listen, I need to talk to James, but he has to be careful how he contacts me. He mustn't get caught. Do you understand me?
She's drawing attention to us, that's what she's doing. ... I don't know what you're up to this time, Mason, but you're gonna get us in deep shit!
Given the nature of our work, we can't ever be careful enough. I think we should review our security procedures, perhaps upgrade them.
I'm afraid this doesn't seem very professional to me, in fact it's distressingly unprofessional for some- one who treated my son briefly  to take a sudden unsolicited interest in his mental health six years later, and to telephone a parent to express opinions that would be inappropriate...  I don't know anything about "Monkey armies", Doctor. Nothing whatsoever. If my son ever was involved in...  It would be doubly inappropriate to discuss matters of security with you, Dr. Railly, but if it will put you at ease, neither my son nor any other unauthorized person has access to any potentially dangerous organisms in this laboratory. Thank you for your concern. DR. MASON hangs up angrily and glares. DR. MASON'S ASSISTANT  Dr. "Kathryn" Railly????
You can't trick us, you know. It wouldn't work.
Well, sir, I don't think the human mind was built to exist in two different... whatever you call it..."dimensions." It's stressful, you said it yourselves, it gets you confused. You don't know what's real and what's not.
You said we weren't "real," Cole...
The food, the sky, the certain, uh, sexual temptations -- you haven't become "addicted" have you, Cole? To that "dying" world'
Tell me. Tell me what I want. RASPY VOICE  To see the sky -- and the ocean -- to be topside -- breathe the air -- to be with her. ... Isn't that right? Isn't that what you want?
Oh, yeah? What do I want? RASPY VOICE  You don't know what you want? Sure you do, Bob. You know what you want.
And what we believe is what's accepted as "truth" now, isn't it, Owen? Psychiatry -- it's the latest religion. And we're the priests -- we decide what's right and what's
Kathryn, you know he can't possibly know that. You're a rational person. You're a trained psychiatrist. You know the difference between what's real and what's not.
This isn't the prison, James.
He's dead, isn't he -- that little boy?
No -- I'm in a state of hyper- alertness. I can't sleep.
You...don't...exist! You're in my mind...
I'd like to be clear about this. That man and the other one were..."severely" beating us. James Cole didn't start it. In fact -- he saved me!
He wouldn't do something like that -- he...
Remember, I'm going to help you. I'll stay with you. I won't let them...
Nobody is going to wipe out the human race. Not you or Jeffrey or anybody else. You've created something in your mind, James -- a substitute reality. In order to avoid something you don't want to face.
Jeffrey Mason said it was my idea about the virus. And suddenly, I wasn't sure. We talked when I was in the institution, and it was all...fuzzy. The drugs and stuff.  You think maybe I'm the one who wiped out the human race? It was my idea?
No! I...don't think so. I stole a car and they chased me. I hit a tree.
Couldn't drive down there without lights. We just can't see 'em.
Remember? We were in the dayroom, watching TV, and you were all upset about the...desecration of the planet. And you said to me, "Wouldn't it be great if there was a germ or a virus that could wipe out mankind and leave the plants and animals just as they are?" You do remember that, don't you?
I don't have time to go upstairs. The police are looking for me. I need to know where it is and exactly what it is.
Come on, follow me. You don't lock so good.
Listen to me -- I can't do anything about what you're going to do. I can't change anything. I can't stop you. I just want some information...
I'm gonna call in a description of this "Pettibone" character. You go keep an eye on him. Make sure he doesn't do one of the guests with a fork.
Arnold Pettibone. Old Arnie Pettibone. Used to be my best friend. Still is. What've you lost, Arnie -- forty pounds? No wonder I didn't know you. You hungry? Lots of dead cow, dead lamb, dead pig. Real killer feast we're putting on tonight.
That would be totally out of character. Helping people is against my principles.  See, he definitely doesn't know me. Now, I'm going to go back and listen to my father's very eloquent discourse on the perils of science WHILE YOU TORTURE THIS
I have to do something now. Something I don't want to do. I'm so sorry.
You shouldn't put your weight on it. You need stitches and antibiotics. Lucky for you it was near the surface.
You were going to run out off gas on purpose, weren't you?
It was some kind of...war. Never mind, you wouldn't believe me. Turn off here.
I said I was too young to drive. I didn't say I was stupid.
I thought you didn't know how to drive.
This can't go on, James. You're not well. You're burning with fever.
You know Dr. Mason's son, Jeffrey Mason, don't you, James? You met him in the County Hospital six years ago.
If those young men don't get loose, they could die in that basement.
He goes on TV, gives a news conference, tells the whole world he just realized his daddy's experiments are vital for humanity and that the use of animals is absolutely necessary and that he, Jeffrey Mason, from now on, is going to personally supervise the labs to make sure all the little animals aren't going to suffer.
But they didn't do it. They didn't do any of it.
But we weren't into that kind of stuff.
No, I don't watch TV.
James, why don't we...?
James, no -- don't hurt them.  Please, I'm a psychiatrist -- just do whatever he tells you to do. He's... upset -- disturbed. Please -- he's dangerous -- just cooperate.
Didn't you hear me? We're not... TEDDY breaks off mid-sentence...freezes.
We don't know anything about any "Army of the Twelve Monkeys", so why don't you and your friend disappear, okay?
You didn't have a gun before, did you?
Come an. We're running out of time. You can't help him.
Please! Please don't hurt me!
No, sir, Old Bob -- don't even try.  They hear everything. They got that tracking device on you. They can find you anywhere. Anytime. Ha Ha!
When I was a kid I identified with that kid, down there alone in that pipe...a hundred feet down -- doesn't know if they're going to save him.
You won't think I'm crazy next month. People are going to start dying. At first the papers will say it's some weird fever, some virus. Then they'll begin to catch on. They'll get it. RADIO NEWSCASTER  We interrupt this program with a special bulletin...
No! Don't leave me here like this!
It wasn't me before, James. It's become me now because of...what's happening. Please untie me.
Something bad. Is that all the music? I don't want to hear this stuff...
My father told me that. "Never cry wolf." Then people won't believe you if...something really happens.
You'd prefer that? ... James...you don't really have a gun, do you.
It's an advertisement, Mr. Cole. You do understand that, don't you? It's not really a special message to you.
I can't believe this is a coincidence, Mr. Cole. Have you been...following me?
I don't know how to drive! We went underground when I was nine, I told you that. When you come to the corner, turn right. Startled, RAILLY whirls, looks right at him.
That's why I can't walk there. Turn here... I think...
I didn't volunteer.
I don't think he's going to hurt us. You're not going to hurt us, are you Mr. Cole? COLE'S head turns quickly to the ENGINEER.
Why don't you sit down, Mr. Cole.
I mashed the spider, didn't I?
Uh, I didn't hear the...
You don't want to jeopardize that reduction, do you, Cole? Have it taken away?
-- so they get there and they ask the guy real nice for some kind of i.d., and he gets agitated, starts screaming about viruses. Totally irrational, totally disoriented, doesn't know where he is, what day it is, alla that stuff. All they got was his name. They figure he's stoned out of his mind, it's some kinda psychotic episode, so they're gonna bring him...
Mr. Cole? My name is Doctor Railly. I'm a psychiatrist. I work for the County -- I don't work for the police. My only concern is your well being -- do you understand that?
I'm going to be completely honest. I'm not going to lie to you. I can't make the police let you go...but I do want to help you. And I want you to trust me. Can you do that, James? May I call you "James"?
It won't help you. You can't do anything about it. You can't change anything.
I see. You don't remember assaulting a police officer...several officers?
They wanted identification. I don't have any identification. I wasn't trying to hurt them.
You don't have a driver's license, James? Or a Social Security card?
You wouldn't understand.
You've been in an institution, haven't you, James? A hospital?
Why do you think there aren't any germs in the air, James?
South of France?! I don't want to go to the South of France. I want to make a telephone call.
Zip it, scumbag -- you fooled the shrink with your act, but you don't fool us.
A telephone call? That's communication with the outside world! Doctor's discretion. Hey, if alla these nuts could just make phone calls, it could spread. Insanity oozing through telephone cables, oozing into the ears of all those poor sane people, infecting them! Whackos everywhere! A plague of madness.  In fact, very few of us here are actually mentally ill. I'm not saying you're not mentally ill, for all I know you're crazy as a loon. But that's not why you're here. Why you're here is because of the system, because of the economy.  There's the TV. It's all right there. Commercials. We are not productive anymore, they don't need us to make things anymore, it's all automated. What are we for then? We're consumers. Okay, buy a lot of stuff, you're a good citizen. But if you don't buy a lot of stuff, you know what? You're mentally ill! That's a fact! If you don't buy things...toilet paper, new cars, computerized blenders, electrically operated sexual devices...
So if you want to watch a particular program, say "All My Children" or something, you go to the Charge Nurse and tell her what day and time the show you want to see is on. But you have to tell her before the show is scheduled to be on. There was this one guy who was always requesting shows that had already played. He couldn't quite grasp the idea that the Charge Nurse couldn't just make it be yesterday for him, turn back time ha ha. What a fruitcake!!
I don't really come from outer space.
This is TJ Washington, Jim -- he doesn't really come from outer space.
Don't mock me, my friend.  It's a condition of "mental divergence". I find myself on another planet, Ogo, part of an intellectual elite, preparing to subjugate barbarian hordes on Pluto. But even though it's a totally convincing reality in every way...I can feel, breathe, hear...nevertheless, Ogo is actually a construct of my psyche. I am mentally divergent in that I am escaping certain unnamed realities that plague my life here. When I stop going there, I will be well. Are you also divergent, friend? The P.A. SYSTEM interrupts, startling COLE. P.A. SYSTEM  James Cole. Report to Staff. James Cole!
We don't use that term..."crazy", Mr. Cole.
Right. I guess you wouldn't, this is 1989, they're probably not active yet. That makes sense! Okay. Listen to me, three billion people died in 1995. Three billion, got that? Almost the whole population. Of the world! Only about one percent survived.
Save you? How can I save you? It already happened! I can't save you. I'm simply trying to get some information for people in the present so that someday...  You don't believe me. You think I'm crazy. But I'm not crazy. I'm a convict, sure, I have a quick temper, but I'm as sane as anyone in this room. I...
No! Look, I don't belong here! What I need to do is make a telephone call to straighten everything out.
No, no. I can't talk to them. It's called, "voice mail". I'm supposed to leave messages. They monitor it from the present.
It wasn't who you expected?
It was some lady. She didn't know anything.
You think you can remove the grill but you can't. It's welded.
"What about the germs?" I say. He goes, "I don't believe in germs. Germs are just a plot they made up so they can sell you disinfectants and soap!" Now, he's crazy, right? Hey, you believe in germs, don't you?
Of course not, I never thought you were. You want to escape, right? That's very sane. I can help you. You want me to, don't you? Get you out?
If you know how to escape, why don't you...?
Why don't I escape, that's what you were going to ask me, right? 'Cause I'd be crazy to escape! I'm all taken care of, see? I've sent out word.
Wiping cut the human race! That's a great idea! But it's more of a long term thing -- right now we have to focus on more immediate goals.  I didn't say a word about "you know what".
Be careful. J. Edgar Hoover isn't really dead.
This was in my box, but I have a slight suspicion it wasn't meant for me.
"You are the most beautiful woman I have ever seen. You live in a beautiful world. But you don't know it. You have freedom, sunshine, air you can breathe."
Just relax -- don't fight it. We have to know exactly what's there so we can...
Don't be defensive, Kathryn, this isn't an inquisition.
I didn't think I was being defensive.
You see what I mean? You're being defensive.  Isn't she being defensive, Bob?
I can't do anything more. The Police are after me.
I couldn't call! You sent me to the wrong year! It was 1989.
I got into trouble. I got arrested. But I still got you a specimen -- a spider -- but I didn't have anyplace to put it, so I ate it. It was the wrong year anyway, so I guess it doesn't matter.
It was supposed to be 1995. RASPY VOICE  Science isn't an exact science with these clowns. You're lucky you didn't end up in ancient Egypt!
Just relax now -- don't fight it. We have to know exactly what's there so we can fix it.
I don't understand. Where am I?
I...don't understand.
